at the same time says the Lord I will be
the God of all the families of Israel
and they shall be my people thus says
the Lord the people who survived the
sword found grace in the wilderness
Israel when I went to give him rest
the Lord has appeared of old to me
yes I have loved you with an everlasting
love therefore with loving kindness I
have drawn you again I will build you
and you shall be rebuilt of virgin of
Israel you shall again be adorned with
your tambourines and shall go forth in
the dances of those who rejoice usual
yet plant vines on the mountains of
Samaria the planters shall plant and eat
them as ordinary food for there shall be
a day when the Watchmen will cry on
mount he frame arise and let us go up to
Zion to the Lord our God
for thus says the Lord sing with
gladness for Jacob and shout among the
chief of the nations proclaim give
praise and say O Lord save your people
the remnant of Israel behold I will
bring them from the north country and
gather them from the ends of the earth
among them the blind and the lame the
woman with child and the one who Labor's
with child together a great throng shall
return there they shall come with
weeping and with supplications I will
need them I will cause them to walk by
the rivers of waters in a straight way
in which they shall not stumble for I am
a father to Israel and Ephraim is my
firstborn here the word of the Lord O
nations and declare it in the aisles
afar off and say he who scattered Israel
will gather him and keep him as a
shepherd does his flock for the Lord has
redeemed Jacob and ransomed him from the
hand of one stronger than he therefore
they shall come and sing in the heights
of Zion screaming to the goodness of the
Lord
for wheat and new wine and oil for the
young of the flock and the herd their
soul shall be like a well watered garden
and they shall sorrow no more at all
then shall the virgin rejoice in the
dance and the young men and the old
together for I will turn their mourning
to joy will comfort them and make them
rejoice rather than sorrow I will
satiate the soul of the priests with
abundance and my people shall be
satisfied with my goodness says the Lord
thus says the Lord a voice was heard in
Ramah lamentation and bitter weeping
Rachel weeping for her children refusing
to be comforted for her children because
they are no
thus says the Lord refrain your voice
from weeping and your eyes from tears
for your work shall be rewarded and they
shall come back from the land of the
enemy there is hope in your future that
your children shall come back to their
own border
I have surely heard Ephraim the moaning
himself
you have chastised me and I was
chastised like an untrained bull restore
me and I will return for you are the
Lord my God surely after my turning I
repented and after I was instructed
I struck myself on the thigh I was
ashamed yes even humiliated because I
bore the reproach of my youth as he fry
him My dear son
is he a pleasant child for though I
spoke against him I earnestly remember
him still
therefore my heart yearns for hidden I
will surely have mercy on him says the
Lord set up signposts make landmarks
such a heart toward the highway the way
in which you went turned back Oh Virgin
of Israel turned back to these your
cities how long will you get about oh
you backsliding daughter for the Lord
has created a new thing in the earth a
woman shall encompass a man thus says
the Lord of hosts the God
of Israel there shall again use this
speech in the land of Judah and in its
cities when I bring back their captivity
the Lord bless you Oh home of justice
and mountain of holiness and there shall
dwell in Judah itself and in all its
cities together farmers and those going
out with flocks for I have say ciated
the weary soul and I have replenished
every sorrowful soul after this I awoke
and looked around and my sleep was sweet
to me behold the days are coming says
the Lord that I will sow the house of
Israel and the house of Judah with the
seed of man and the seed of beasts and
it shall come to pass that as I have
watched over them to pluck up to break
down to throw down to destroy and to
afflict so I will watch over them to
build and to plant says the Lord in
those days they shall say no more
the fathers have eaten sour grapes and
the children's teeth are set on edge but
every one shall die for his own iniquity
every man who eats the sour grapes his
teeth shall be set on edge behold the
days are coming says the Lord when I
will make a new covenant with the house
of Israel and with the house of Judah
not according to the Covenant that I
made with their fathers in the day that
I took them by the hand to lead them out
of the land of Egypt my covenant which
they broke though I was a husband to
them but this is the Covenant that I
will make with the house of Israel after
those days I will put my law in their
minds and write it on their hearts and I
will be their God and they shall be my
people
no more shall every man teach his
neighbor and every man his brother
saying know the Lord for they all shall
know me from the least of them to the
greatest of them for I will forgive
their iniquity and their sin I will
remember no more thus says the Lord who
gives the Sun for a light by day the
ordinances of the moon and the stars for
a light by night who disturbs the sea
and it's waves roar the Lord of Hosts is
his name
if those ordinances depart from before
me says the Lord then the seed of Israel
shall also cease from being a nation
before me forever thus says the Lord if
heaven above can be measured and the
foundations of the earth searched out
beneath I will also cast off all the
seed of Israel for all that they have
done says the Lord the whole the days
are coming says the Lord that the city
shall be built for the Lord from the
tower of Hannah Nell to the corner gate
the surveyors line shall again extends
straight forward over the hill gareb
then it shall turn toward goeth and the
whole valley of the dead bodies and of
the ashes and all the fields as far as
the brook kidron to the corner of the
horse gate toward the east shall be holy
to the Lord it shall not be plucked up
or thrown down anymore for ever
you